>> All right, so let's start talking about
different kinds of methods that we've got.
So this is pretty much it,
there's a couple of extra things.
But if you know these methods,
that's all you need to know about LevelDB.
Of course, knowing that the methods exists
and knowing what arguments it takes.
They take isn't the whole story, because
you have to think about data in a kind
of a unique way if you haven't used
a database that works like this before.
So I'll get more into that, but
what we can do to start is we can
use a couple of methods put and
get to just play around on the repple or
maybe we can write a little program.
So why don't I write a little program,
we can just make a simple counter
that's going to write out a number.
And every time you run the program,
it'll read the previous number and
it'll increment it and
then print out the new number.
That's a pretty simple thing to do
just to give you an idea of get input.
I mean, they work pretty much
like I think you might expect.
So there's no surprises.
Let's just write that out.
So I'll call this increments or inc.js.
So we're gonna require level like before.
We're gonna now have
a database location to use.
So we call this inc.db, why not?
So increment db.
Let's just use a value encoding of JSON,
so I don't have to muck
about with turning strings into
numbers and that kind of thing.
And so what we can do now is we can
call db.get on count, let's say.
So the basic idea with LevelDB is that
you have keys and values and there's some
subtleties there that I'll get into about
like lexicographic orderings, and things.
But for this example,
we can just have a key called count.
Give it a callback and then the callback
gets an error if there is one.
So it's always good to bail
out if you get an error.
Otherwise, what we can do is take
that value and increment it.
But actually if a key doesn't exist,
we get an error.
So in this case,
we're just gonna ignore the error on.
Because if there was an account
already set just use zero,
that's fine in this case.
So we can take the value or
0 and we can add 1 to it, and
this is the value that we're gonna store.
So we can call db.put now on
counts with our new value.
So the key value and then callback.
Now if there's an error,
we probably want to know about it.
So.
But otherwise,
we wanna print out what the new count is.
So I actually should have
saved this to a variable.
So if I do that,
let's call it n, console.log(n).
Put an else in front of that.
All right, so stepping through
this pretty simple program.
Now, again, really quick and
then we'll run it.
So we require level.
You have to npm install level
first to make this work.
We instantiate the LevelDB instance and
we get a handle back called db.
DB has methods like put and
get and create read string, and
batch, and all kinds of fun stuff.
In this case,
we're using a value encoding of JSON, so
that we don't have to convert
the string to a number over and over.
So we get a count, it's the key.
If it existed, then there's no error and
the value will be whatever
the last value was.
Otherwise, there's going to be an error
called like not found keynote founder or
something like that.
So then we increment that number and
put it back into the database, and
print it out.
So here, I'm gonna run this program.
So first time I run it, I get 1.
Second time 2, 3, 4, etc.
So pretty fun.
I'll put that in repo.
And you can play around, if you like.
So that was an example of get input.
There's also methods for
doing things like deleting keys.
So we can also like db.del and
then it takes the key names,
accounts and
callback fairly straightforward.
The more interesting ones are batch and
create read stream.
And these are kind of related and
there's some ideas that we have to
go through about atomic inserts, and
structuring our keys in such a way that we
can pull out range queries from the data.
All right, so first, I think it's
important to cover this topic or
cover this idea called atomicity.
This means either if you
have a bunch of operations,
they should either all succeed or
all fail.
You don't want like, for example,
if you're creating a new user
accounts on a website and
you have to create a new user account and
then you have to store their address or
store their email or send an email,
all this kind of stuff.
So you don't wanna have
accidentally created an email and
then there's no user
account that matches it.
You want your data to sort of
be in a consistent state and
this is a guarantee that you can get with
LevelDB using this API called batch,
which we'll look at in a moment.
All right and this is an important way to
enforce another idea called consistency
which just means that your data is not
gonna be in some in-between state between
two valid states, so that you can make
certain guarantees about how your
data works and how can deal with it.
All right, so a good way to
enforce atomicity with LevelDB
is this method called batch.
So batch takes an array of operations.
All of these objects in this
array have a key and a value.
And so this is just like doing
db.put over and over again.
Except if there's an error, all of those
operations will be unrolled atomically or
they'll all be inserted at the same time.
You're not going to get into a situation
where like one of the documents
was written and another one wasn't.
And then at the end, you get a callback
like most of the other API calls in level.
So why don't we play around
with batch just a little bit?
So we'll call this one batch.js.
Maybe we can take some arguments
on the command line, I don't know.
So as before, you can require level and
you can setup a LevelDB
instance like this.
Maybe we'll do value encoding
of json again or not, whatever.
So now, we can call db.batch
with a bunch of records.
So maybe we wanna insert
the numbers 0 o through 10.
So can do a little loop through that.
I'll just create an array called batch and
we can push things onto
that array in a loop.
And then if there's an error,
we wanna know about it.
So.
All right, so make a little loop and then
we're gonna push things onto that loop.
So we have to provide a key.
We'll just call it n and then the number.
That's simple thing to do and
then we'll put a value of maybe i*1000.
Pretty contrived example, but I think
you should get the idea how this works.
So if I run this now,
it's gonna just do nothing.
Because we're not printing anything,
except for an error.
If there was one,
then there wasn't an error.
So everything is good.
This now gives us a good opportunity
to look at the final method in
the LevelDB API,
which is called createReadStream.
So if we wanna pull that data out of
our database, we can use this method.
So the main thing that LevelDB gives
you which is really powerful I mean,
all of the rest of this stuff you can
get pretty much anywhere else, right?
But the main thing where a lot of
the power comes from is the ability to
structure your data lexicographically
with these range queries.
So you sort of have to think a lot about
what the c keys are going to sort,
which we'll get a little more into.
But once you've done that, it can be a
very powerful tool that works in a really
modular way with a big ecosystem
of packages that you can use.
All right, so let's modify our example.
Now, I'm just gonna comment out
the previous stuff with this batch
function that we were doing and
we can now call db.createReadStream.
You get an object mode stream back,
an object mode readable stream.
So there's a lot of ways to
consume one of these, but
we can pipe into this package that
I covered yesterday called to2.
It's a silly name, but whatever.
It's an easy way to
consume a readable stream.
So we're gonna get objects.
So I like to call those row and
then you get an encoding.
You can always ignore that and
you get a next function.
So you have to call the next
function to keep the stream flowing.
So you can do things asynchronously and
you're not gonna get a bunch of data
that's like backed up on the other side.
The node stream API is
kind of intelligent about
making sure that it's only pulling
the data that it needs to from the source,
which in this case is
going to be our database.
Pretty handy if you have to pump data out
to a slow connection on 2G edge network or
something and can't go very fast.
Okay, so what we can just do right now
is I'm just gonna print out what those
objects look like.
So we can use console.log with row and
we can call the next function,
cuz it's a batch function.
So we're going to use db.createReadStream.
We're going to pipe it into just
this stream that's just going
to print out all of
the records in our database.
These are objects.
Actually, I did this incorrectly anyways.
So it's an object mode stream that we get
back from the local db.createReadStream
functions.
So you need to put .obj or you need to
create your stream with object mode and
camel case colon true to enable
that behavior in node streams like
a little bit of string,
obscure stream trivia.
But it comes up a lot in LevelDB,
because you get objects and streams back.
So let's look at what data we get
back that we put in there before.
Here we go.
So
we get back the data that we put in there,
keys go from 0 to 9 and
the values look good as
well like 0 to 9,000.
An important thing to note is that
it's not just coincidence that these
are in order.
This is something that you
always get back from LevelDB.
So when you do a range query,
you're always going to get
back the results in order.
The one caveat to that is if you pass
in an option called reverse true,
then you're going to get back the results
in reverse order which is can be slower.
So it's usually not if you can get away
with not doing that, it's good to do it.
But sometimes,
you already have data in a certain way and
you just need to get it backwards.
So all right, so I'm gonna put that.
So we can start looking at some of the
other things we can do with read streams.
Now, one really useful
thing that you can do.
I mean, there's also a limit function.
But one of the most useful things
that you can do is you can
use these options to sort of have
a subsection in the results.
For example,
if I want to do greater than n5,
only gonna get back results
that are greater than the key
n5 when comparing in string order which
is also called lexicographical order.
So now indeed, I get 6, 7, 8, and 9 and
I don't get any of the other ones.
There's also a less than,
less than or equal to.
So I can window that down even
a little more, less than 8.
So now, I should just get 6 and 7.
Yep, so these are just some basic
primitives that you can mess around with.
>> So when you mentioned ordering,
is that strictly by the key property or
is that based on insertion order or?
>> The ordering is based
on the key property.
So it just so happened that our insertion
order was the same as the keys, but
that doesn't often even hold it.
Just this silly example.
But yeah, so
things that are in LevelDB are always
sorted by the key in string order.
So it always kind of be
thinking about how strings
are going to compare like how is the
string going to be less than another one.
So you wanna play around with that.
You can use the Unix sort command or
you can use the erase sort command to just
sort of like test out, or
you can use the less than and
greater than operations as well to
test that out on the command line.
Also, note that numbers get
converted into strings.
So 12 comes before 2,
because 1 as a string comes before 2.
And things that are longer will come
after equivalent things that are shorter.
So like for example,
if one and 12, 1 comes before,
because it's shorter than 12, okay?
So I think this is a good
opportunity to play around.
I'm gonna add those files to the repo.
It's kind of a mess but whatever.
>> Add your package json.
>> What?
>> Did I not add the package.json.
>> [LAUGH]
>> All right, cool.
I though that I did.
>> The less than and the greater than,
were they on the key or the value?
>> They're on the key.
Yeah, so the comparisons with greater than
less than, etc., are always on the key.
>> From an application standpoint, you
would mostly compare the values, right?
>> We'll get a little more into how to do
that, you can build secondary indexes.
But again, LevelDB really isn't something
that you probably wouldn't want to
use it for something that's just
going to be a drop in replacement for
like an existing kind of
crud workflow crud app.
LevelDB is for things that are way over
in left field in like fun lands where
everything is relatively new and
experimental,
and we're gonna get really far into
that territory at the end of today.
So yeah, you can kind of use it for
that kind of stuff and
like people kind of work.
But yeah,
it's probably easier if you have one of
those problems to use something like
more traditional like Postgres API.
But you can't run Postgres in the browser.
I don't think so, anyways.
Okay, so let's see.
I see a question on the chat,
can you run greater than?
Nope, you can't run greater than value,
whatever.
So just nope, but I will show you
how to do operations on the values.
We can actually combine the things
that we've already seen.
We can combine using range queries and
combined using batch, so
that we can insert additional keys which
is what a relational database will do
behind the scenes for you anyways.
So we'll get into that in a bit.
All right, another question.
Can you store more complex data
types like objects or arrays, or
they get converted into strings?
So depending on what value
encoding you're using,
you can store whatever kind
of values fit into that.
So arrays and objects are fine,
although I probably wouldn't wanna store
something that's like a super nested
hairy object with too many elements.
LevelDB is usually best for
kind of storing small documents.
And if you have other bigger pieces of
information like files, especially,
it's good to just include like the hash or
the file name in the document and
then use another store for
that kind of information.
We'll cover some of those stores at the
end of this particular set as well, done.